All right.
So we are almost ready to make a request from our client to the server to continue this signup process,
because we have now everything ready to go in the back and we have the route, we have the control function
to handle the sign up and sign in.
And we have got the keys, the central keys and the database from one way to says, which we are ready
in the backend so we can go to the front end and start making a request.
All right.
So I previously stopped my service, so let's make sure we run it.
We always need to make sure you run it both back in in front of it.
Right.
And so we've got them here running.
Now let's come here and let's go to the sign up is it's it is good to client bases sign up to sign a
process that's when we send the user's name imminent password to the back end and back in will save
the user in the database.
Right.
So.
So we have this phone that takes the user name, email and password and we are showing those values
here.
Now, this value, this is what we want to send to the back end.
And for that we can use either fit or excuse to make the has to type request.
We need to make a post request so that we can send this value from the client to server.
All right.
So we're going to use excuse, which is the most popular has to be client.
So we need to install that.
And so we have the space.
Right.
So let's go ahead and start that library as well and beam in.
So excuse me.
And we're going to use another library for showing the toast notification.
For example, when users successfully sign up, we want to show some kind of notification that congratulations,
you have successfully signed up or something like that.
To show the notification, we can use another library that's called the React Heart host.
All right.
So it's nice and easy to use and I'll be showing you how to use this.
Right.
So let's instant asparagus react hot does along with excuse excuse and then we are hot toast.
While it's happening, let's come here and let's work on this unfinished one.
So let me comment that out.
And we're going to import excuse excuse from excuse, by the way, if you need to excuse, let me quickly
show you.
And Anthem, so not in Quito excuse.
So the documentation is very easy to read and it gives you the overall idea of what it does.
It's a promise based has to be claimed for browser and notice.
So you can use excuse in the back end as well.
So we can insulate shoes, then we can make the request like this.
So make it get requests if we want to get some data from the back end.
For example, if you want to get user buy the idea of this from the database, then you would make a
request, something like this so you can see the target request and then you can handle the response,
just the error.
If it is successful, get the data.
You said that's a gift request.
So if you're using async await.
So this is how we're going to make a request which is much cleaner than this one.
So we're going to dig this upwards.
Here's an example of a post request.
So when you make a post request, you first write the endpoint and then you send the data as a second
argument to this post function.
I guess that's the first argument.
Second argument is whatever data you want to post to the back end.
So in case if you want to send the user's first name and last name, this is how you send it.
All right.
So let's go ahead and give it a try.
So we import excuse.
We import the dos.
It is.
Let me show you so we can trust.
This is the function we are going to execute to show the trust.
And then we need to make sure we have this trust component as well in the body of the component.
So you can see this is the symbol component.
It has the toaster in the body.
So this is important.
Otherwise, you don't see your toast notification.
So once you have this in your written body, then you can use toast to.
So some kind of notification like this.
Let's copy this one.
In this space, too.
That's a good excuse.
We've got to start over.
Let's make sure we start the server
so we have the back end running front and running.
Let's continue here.
So what we want to do is we want to make a post request because we want to post this data sign of data.
You just name, email and password to the endpoint which is here.
Let's have a look in our server routes.
Also, he can see here we have this route called Sign Up.
To support Trump and whatever request you send, whatever donation will be processed in this control
function.
Right.
And we also need to make sure to prefix anything with less API because that's how we have applied our
middleware prefixed with API.
All right, so let's go through it one more time.
So sign a function.
Let's have a look what we have in this kind of function.
This is the controller and a controller in the author file.
And this is the component that is responsible to save the user in the database.
All right.
Before we do anything, let me show you by some console.log, request, import.
So whatever data you send from the client to the server using has to be library like Axios of it.
You will receive that data in the request body.
All right, so let me use return keyword so that this all this code doesn't execute because we don't
want to save the user in the database.
We want to check out what we are getting in the body.
Because I want to make you fully understand before we just get.
Implement the functionality because you need to understand how everything is working, right?
So that's right.
Let's have a look how the data is sent from the client.
This information ought to be the type, how this is sent to the backend.
This is how you will be able to see.
Right.
So we make a request to sign up in the sign up front.
So let's go to the frontend, sign a piece and make a request.
So I will use the async await.
So the use the async await your functions have to prefix with the word async.
Right.
So asynchronous function.
So this is the array of functions.
You prefix this function with async, then you can use a way to cure.
So we use try and get to catch any errors.
If we've got an error, we can console.log the error.
We can show the toast notification as well.
So a toast notification we can do.
Right.
Let's write to dirt.
And by the way, you can use toast that will give you the plain box.
But if you want to source a red colour, then you would use toast.
Enter.
If you want to show a nice blue toast.
Then you can use success.
And so let's use toast here.
And we can write something like sign.
Sign failed.
Try again.
All right, so let's try.
So we want to make a request using Axios and that will give us some data that will give us some data
cost the response in its right response.
And in that response you will have the property called to.
I guess that's the reason you could actually do data destructor directly.
But let me show you using response first and then we will use Destructor in bit later.
So we await for the excuse to make a post request.
Now, this post is a function.
It is a function.
It takes two out of this.
First one is the the endpoint.
What do you want to make a request?
In our case, that is less API, less sign up.
That's the end point.
I get to this first argument.
Second argument.
What do you want to push toward today?
You want to send.
So in that case, we want to send all the values, right?
So that includes user name, email, password, whatever the user entered in the phone.
All right.
So that's how we send.
No.
Are we going to do a couple of things here?
We can show the subsystems and redirect the user to sign in base.
But for the moment, I just want to have a look what we get in the response.
So we need to understand this 1/1.
So we take some time here, but later on we will move a little bit faster.
But since this is the first time we are trying excuse we.
I'm just taking it slow.
All right.
So we make a request that will give us the response, whatever we get, and that one, we are console.log
because we want to see how everything is working.
Now, at the at the moment we will not get any response because in our control function you can see
we are not returning anything.
We are not returning any kind of JSON response, we just console.log.
So at the moment you will not get anything in the client, but you should be able to see the request
body, which should show you all the user information that is sent from the client and received in the
server here.
Okay.
So let's make sure we get that before we move forward.
So let's try
right.
Right.
And Jim end up.
All right, so let's hit register.
We don't get any response here.
That's fine.
But let's take if we got this data name, email and password in the back end.
Let's have a look.
Okay.
Unfortunately, we did it again.
See?
Thank you.
So when something like that happens.
We have to take.
First of all, let's make sure.
So this is going.
So it's good to design a base.
So unfinished.
It's unfinished.
Let's come here.
Open the inspector.
This is how you debug when things don't go according to plan.
Let's see here.
And you can see we have some error.
For for not far.
It's to win.
Whenever you get four four error messages that means the the you are told that you are making a request
is not fun.
Now, why is that happening?
That's because we just writing's less API less.
So what the browser is doing is making requests to the same domain.
Localhost 3000 less ips less than that's what it is making request.
And as a result agency.
We have the error.
I can go here.
Network dep.
Actually, we didn't.
Let's try again.
You can see you've got the sign up.
And if you go to the headers, you can see.
The request headers to request headers.
We making request to look almost 3000.
That's a for making a request.
Our guests should be here in general.
So you can see amid request to localhost three thousands less apps less.
So we basically made a request to the application itself here.
That's because we didn't supply the full U error.
That's why that base obviously doesn't exist with the method of post.
So that's how we got this error.
So whatever I'm saying about how you double this error, this is extremely important and you need to
get comfortable doing such a debugging throughout the course.
So I guess to just pay close attention to it.
So you can see we made a request here, but obviously that's a wrong.
You got it.
So we need to make sure we give the full path to it.
The request is sent to localhost 8000.
Right.
So that's where our server it's.
So let's provide the full path has to be called SLAs less localhost colon 8000 less API less signup.
Now this time the request should be sent to our server correctly and we should be able to see it in
the console.
I'm pretty sure.
Well, then, let's try it.
Let's hit register.
So this time you didn't get an error.
You can see.
And if you click here.
Now it has gone to the correct character.
You can sign up and you should come all the way down.
Request headers.
Payload.
If you click on the payload, you will see we are sending this data as a payload as well, which will
be sent in the request body.
So there are two types of things we can send when we make a request in the request headers and body.
Usually in headers we send some decent work tokens, things like that, which will be used to authenticate
the user.
We will cover that later in the course.
So that will be sending the headers request heads and then in data we will be sending the request on
board.
So that's fine if you go have a look in the back end.
Now, that is great.
You can see here we got this data in the request body name, imminent password from client from local
3000 to a different domain localhost 8000.
We were able to send this data and this is great listed.
That's how plant and server communicates using this decent, decent data system.
I guess a go to controller, you can see this is what you are seeing here.
So that's great.
Now you understand how you send data from client to server and if there is an issue issues how you dbo
right.
How you're taking the console, how you take the network dev, I guess how you take the hairs on which
endpoint it is.
Miggy sent the request and sent and what payload has been sent.
Now if there was any response, you would be able to see here as well.
At the moment we don't have any response because we are not returning anything.
But so far so good.
You've got the basic idea of hosting request and some debugging.
Now in the following lecture, we can go ahead and send the user in the database.